Well, so if you think about it,
we can start working on the dashboard part
that brings in all the journal entries and
things like that.
But because the journal entries and stuff
that are gonna be scoped towards the user,
that means we would either have to just
make a bunch of mock data right now.
And then we have to delete it
later to bring in the real data or
we can just start using the real
data right now, hook up a database.
But if we do that, that means we
need a user, and if we need a user,
that means we need authentication.
So this is where I'm just
gonna work on authentication.
So let's just get
authentication out the way.
And typically,
authentication is just so hard to do,
it's honestly a drag if you
try to build it yourself.
But we're gonna use a really cool
service that makes it super easy.
I'm now in the boat of never rolling your
own authentication any more unless you
have a really good reason or
you have the best authentication
engineers on the planet for
some reason at your company, and
that's just what they like to do.
Other than that, I think you shouldn't
roll your own auth going forward because
who wants to be a security expert?
So, we're gonna use
a service called Clerk,
I don't know if anybody's ever heard of
Clerk, but it's actually pretty dope.
So let's go there.
So if you go to clerk.
.dev, it's by far probably one
of the best services I've seen,
and I've tried them all
out in the last few years.
It kind of reminds me of Auth0
in the early days, but even
still better than that, Auth0 still took
like, I don't know, an hour to set up,
this literally takes five minutes or
less to set up, it's kind of crazy.
So, what we wanna do here is you wanna
go make an account on Clerk, it's free,
you don't need a credit card.
You don't need anything to get started,
you literally don't need anything,
you just need an account to sign up.
That's literally it.
So I guess, let me see if I can make a new
account to go through the whole flow.
Yeah, that's what I do, so you can
see I already have some stuff here.
So once you make an account, you'll see
this right here that says Add application,
just click that,
click Add application, and it's just
gonna walk you through this form.
So let's do that.
I'll just say Mood v2 since
it's my second one and
then here you can kind of pick what
authentication strategies you want.
So, you want people to sign up with email,
you want people to sign up with Google.
You want people to sign up with their Xero
[LAUGH] account or their HubSpot account,
you can do that too,
you can switch on whatever you want.
The cool thing is,
if you use one of these third-party or
one of these SSL ones like Google,
these social ones,
you don't need to go configure your
own app right now to get started.
You don't have to go on Google and
configure your own OAuth app,
you'll just use theirs for now.
In production, you definitely probably
wanna configure your own, so when someone
gets the Oauth Moto, it shows your app and
not whatever they're gonna show.
But you don't have to do that right now,
it's literally free.
So I'm gonna keep e-mail on,
I'm gonna keep Google on, and
then I'm just gonna click
Create Application.
And this is a preview of what the form
will look like, if you use their form,
this is what you'll see.
So if you can see if I
turn on the phone number,
it says use phone either
username Facebook ads, Facebook.
That's pretty cool.
So I was gonna do Google and email, I'm
gonna create, click Create Application.
And then what you can see here just make
sure you have next year selected which by
default it already does.
Because I don't know if he knows we're
doing this or just as soon as everyone's
gonna actually ask because it's probably
the best react framework out there.
But make sure you have that and then
copy these environment variables here.
So copies environment
variables here .env.local.
And then what we'll do is go into our app,
we'll make a new file.
Called .env.local.
And we'll just paste that stuff in.
So the difference between env.local
file and a regular env file,
it's just really what
Next.js's conventions are.
If it sees an env.local file, it'll
automatically load those environment and
variables into the environment for you.
Whereas if the .env file, I don't know if
it loads that up automatically for you,
I think you would have to load that up
yourself using something like the .env
package that you have to install.
So that's the difference.
We'll probably use both because one of the
other tools that we use will automatically
load up the .env file for the databases,
so we'll use both of them most likely, but
just know that that's why that's here,
it's for that reason.
Okay, so once we have that, I'm just gonna
show you preview of what the docs are so
you kinda know what it looks like and
how to get started with it.
But we are using Next.js 13, so
make sure when you're looking
at this that you are aware.
But the first thing we wanna do
is just install the clerk/nextjs.
So let's do that.
So I'm gonna head back to my app,
I'm gonna keep it running,
I was gonna open up a new
tab in my terminal.
I was gonna say npm,
I'm just gonna actually paste
what I copied, npm install @clerk/nextjs.
Let that thing install.
And really, there's only a few things
we need to do, one, we need to
set up the provider for our entire app,
we'll do that in our route layout.
The other thing we need to do is we need
to set up the sign-up and sign in pages.
And then the last thing we need to do is
protect any route that we want to protect.
And then we're done.
That's it, everything else from there is
just using any helper functions you wanna
use to check to see if a user's logged in
programmatically, like when you're making
an API call, or you're doing a server
action, or some server site data fetch.
So it's actually quite simple.
So, let's just do the setup for
the provider.
You only have to import the Clerk provider
here and wrap it around your route,
it's actually quite simple.
So if we go to our route layout,
which should be in app layout,
you can import from @clerk/nextjs, and
you can get the Clerk provider like so.
And just wrap it around the HTML here,
you don't need to pass any props to it,
it's pretty simple.
The reason you don't have to pass any
props because it's just gonna read
those environment variables that we added,
so you don't need to pass it anything.
Okay.
The next thing we wanna do is just.
What did you say?
>> Could you share that
import statement again?
>> This one?
Yeah, here you go.
Yeah, question?
>> Are you using a VS Code plug in for
that tailwind autocomplete?
>> Yeah, I forgot I had that.
Yeah, I have a VS Code plug in for that.
Let me see.
What was it called?
It is called tailwind and
Tailwind CSS IntelliSense.
Yeah, it gives you autocomplete for
Tailwind.
I also think when you hit Save,
it will shift the order of the classes,
cuz some classes in Tailwind,
if you put them after another class, work
differently, so it will put them in the
right order to get the expected behavior.
But yeah, it's mostly just for the auto
complete, you get some linting too.
So yeah, I am using that.
It doesn't work all the time though,
sometimes you have to do weird stuff too.
Like instance, if I start adding
a class name here or something,
it won't work all the time.
So if I say text,
you can see right there it's not working.
But then you kind of start over and
do it again, then it will, so
it kind of just depends.
>> If you didn't select Typescript,
can you just make the files JSX?
>> Yeah, if you didn't select Typescript,
you can do JSX, and that's totally fine.
You don't have to use Typescript for
any of this stuff,
I'm just using TypeScript so
people who want to use TypeScript
can see an example of what
it's like to use TypeScript.
>> Does wrapping the route layout with
a provider make it a client component?
>> That's a great question.
If you were to take a provider that
was made before server components were
created, that provider would not work by
default because it would be using client
side, things like Hooks use provider or
use context and stuff like that.
But Clerk is on top of things and
they've been literally updating their
SDKs since Next.js 13 came out and
they have made sure their provider
works for server components.
They follow the guide on the Next.js
documentation on how to use providers,
which is here.
Let's see, somewhere in here,
here we go, providers.
So they basically follow
this guy to make sure
that their providers work in layouts and
things like that.
Whereas by default,
you're right, they wouldn't work.
But to answer your question more broadly,
nothing is gonna transform your component
to a client component other than
putting the word use client at the top.
This is not automatically gonna
turn into a client component,
you literally have to put that at the top,
otherwise you'll just get an error saying
this should be a client component.
Please put this at the top,
please put use client at the top.
But yeah,
it will never just automatically change
your component to be client from server.
Cool, any other questions?
>> There's some debate around
Tailwind CSS in the chat.
>> I'm happy to enter that debate because
I just came around to Tailwind less than
a year ago, I had this
conversation in the last course.
I think when it comes down to just like
if you're already gonna write your
own CSS from scratch,
you might as well use Tailwind.
If you don't plan on writing
your own CSS from scratch,
there's probably better
alternatives out there.
Find a component library
that's already styled, and
then use the props on that
to change those styles.
That's probably a lot better.
But I'm now in this point where I'm so
opinionated with how I
like things to look.
I would rather use a component library
that's headless that has no style
affiliated with it whatsoever,
only functionality and
then use Tailwind to style it.
And then the only thing I'm fighting
with is configuring Tailwind which I've
read a fight with that than write
my own CSS from scratch, so.
>> There are some pretty
exciting component libraries
coming out that leverage Tailwind as well,
so.
>> Yeah, it is getting better now.
There are some component libs that
use Tailwind, so I just think, yeah,
Tailwind as a utility.
If you think of Tailwind as
like a recipe to some meal,
like this component library use tailwind,
I think is great.
But yeah, I think using tailwind just
raw by itself, it can feel like,
why am I doing this?
I don't wanna do this, but it's not
that bad specifically because they make
the class names sound very similar to the
functionality and what you're using, so
you can kinda learn it really quick.
And even then you don't really
need to learn everything.
I keep this tab open,
that's the component one, but
I keep the other Tailwind tab open,
actually open it right now.
Because I don't remember all this stuff,
but it's so easy to look up,
I know what I'm trying to do.
If I'm like, I need a border,
I know that if I go here,
it's gonna show me how to do it.
I just go straight down to this one
example I look at every single time, and
I grab it, and I'm done,
cuz it's very simple.
It's not something you need to be
great at, the documentation is good,
you just need to know what you need to do,
and then you're probably good to go.
This is really cool because it's gonna
leverage the catch-all routing system that
Next.js has.
So just a refresher on
how catch all works.
So what that means is,
let's say I go into the sign-up folder,
I make a new folder in here, right?
And let's say this new folder says
this is just me writing scratch code,
you don't have to follow along right now
if you don't want to show an example.
This right here is basically
saying it's a dynamic route, so
when someone goes to /signup/ anything,
I'm gonna call it ID, activate this route.
What I could do though is if I don't
know how many routes are gonna be
after /signup, I could put dot,
dot, dot in there.
And now it's a catch all route,
which means if anyone goes to
/signup/anything/anything/anything/anythi-
ng/anything, show this page.
Then I can take it a step further and
then I can just put another square
bracket around it, and it does the exact
same thing of what I just said,
but it also includes if
anyone goes to /sign up.
So that's what a catch-all route is.
It's just basically any route that,
in this case,
will come after sign up, show this page.
So we're gonna do that for authentication,
that way if anybody tries to go to /signup
anything, it's gonna show our signup form,
there's just no way around it.
Do you have to do that?
No, but I guess it's just making
sure people don't get messed up.
You could also just build your own logic
and show a 404 if they don't go to
the page that you want, and
then have them redirect back to signup.
So I think it's just a little easier
than setting up that redirect logic, and
setting up a 404, and
doing all that stuff.
Just like, hey,
if you go to /signup anything,
we're gonna send you to the signup page.
So that's exactly what we're gonna do.
We're just gonna follow the instructions
of what they expect us here to do.
So if you look at the sign-up page here,
if you're looking at these docs,
make sure you're clicking on the one
that says app and not pages.
We're not using pages,
that's Next.js 12, we're using app.
So all we have to do is just make a signup
folder, and we're gonna do the catch all
inclusive, which means double
brackets with the signup.
So let's just do that.
So I'm gonna change my from
ID to sign-up like that.
Thats a single.
[LAUGH] Funny story,
I took singing classes before,
and I'm not good at it, so
[LAUGH] I stopped doing it.
And now if you go into this file,
you do page.tsx, because again,
if you don't add a page, it's not a route.
So we have to add a page at the root of
a folder in which we want our route to be.
So we're gonna add a page here, And
all we're gonna do is just import
the sign in component from @clerk/nextjs,
I'm sorry, the sign-up function,
not the sign in like that.
We're just gonna make a component here,
we'll call it the SignUpPage, like so.
Oops.
And we're just gonna return the signup.
Like that, and
it's gonna export default this.
I mean, as we don't even need this
wrapper, we could probably just return
the sign-up component, but you probably
want this wrapper, that way you
can style this page to make it look
like what you want it to look like.
If you wanted to style
the component itself,
there's two ways to do that in Clerk.
You can do that on their website
where you can style it, but
you can also just make your
own sign-up component.
You don't have to use theirs, you can just
make your own and use like their inputs
and things like that or call their APIs,
so it gets really flexible.
We're not gonna do that, we're just gonna
use the one that they gave us cuz why not?
They already thought about it.
So we have that there, so
to export default that SignUpPage.
So now we have sign up and we're just
gonna do the same thing for sign in.
So for sign in,
make a new folder inside of that folder,
got our [[...sign-in]] like that.
I'm just gonna just copy this code
here cuz it's literally the same code,
just instead of SignUp, it's SignIn.
And I'm gonna go into there,
make a page.tsx.
And I'm just gonna paste.
I'm just gonna grab
everything that says signup.
On Mac, you can just do a keyboard
shortcut of CMD+Shift+L, and
it'll copy everything there.
And you can just say SignIn.